Let's now look at some JavaScript prompts.
We've looked at alerts, we've looked to confirmations.
Now let's look at prompts. Again
we start with an HTML5 document.
And we can do this many ways again, but let's just do an input for now, and we'll do an onclick
promptMe function.
So we've got our button, but now when the browser comes to execute a function called promptMe,
it's not going to find it. Which is why we gotta write JavaScript.
Our function keyword we've called it promptMe.
And now let's issue a JavaScript prompt. It really isn't difficult, you'll see now. So with the keyword
prompt,
you write your message.
How many warthogs do you have?
And then here you can just give a little, um,
placeholder, like little hint and say, enter number of warthogs here.
Let's see what this looks like.
Let me just close these other tabs.
I keep forgetting this is not JavaScript, and I keep putting semi-colons here.
This is just HTML. So "Prompt me please".
Here's our button.
Click the button.
How many
warthogs do you
have?
And here's that little hint that we said - enter number of warthogs here.
Now, if I write 10 and I click OK, nothing's going to happen because we haven't told JavaScript
what to do with our input value.
Remember, we kind of did a bit of this with the confirmation.
Well, how do we do this with prompt?
Let's let's have a look.
Let's do it.
The first thing we have to do, is we have to store the users decision in something, in a variable.
So let's do that.
Let's say, let
number, because we know the user
is going to insert a number. Let number equals whatever the user has put in - make sense so far.
And remember how we spoke about Template Literals?
I hope you do.
Because here we're going to go document.write()
and we're gonna use Template Literals  - those 2 back ticks.
We're going to say, you have
and when you type in a variable within a Temperate Literal, you've gotta use the dollar sign
and the (curly) brackets.
And we've called it number.
So you have number ...
And now if I save this
and we go into our page here, and refresh.
Let's do it. Let's do a prompt. Enter number of warthogs.
Let's say I've got 3 warthogs and I click, OK.
You have 3 warthogs as pets.
That is a lot.
And you see how it's
dynamically inserted the 3 on the page?
This is awesome.
This is what JavaScript is all about.
Hope you are enjoying yourself as much as me.
Let's continue.